Docs 5776 wsdl and raml strict validation pa (#139)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy.adoc

= Building a RAML or OAS API Proxy

API Manager 2.x allows you to use a RAML/OAS type of API Proxy, for all your Mule 4 based proxies.

== Configuring Your RAML or OAS API Proxy

. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* to create your API instance. 
+
You can create an API instance by importing from Exchange or by importing in API Manager. 
. From *Asset Type*, select *REST/OAS*.
. To configure your API proxy for this API instance, select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing type* field.
. In the *Proxy Deployment Target* field, select your deployment target for the proxy.
. Select *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above*.
+
The strict validation options are automatically displayed under the *Validations* field.
. In the *Implementation URI* field, type the URI for the backend service.
+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-85634.png[]
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
+

> Versions 2.0.0 and later are recommended for OAS/RAML specs, since these versions add native OAS support.

Reviewer: Maybe we can add context to what "versions" word mean by adding "Proxy Version 2.0.0 and later".

Let's check "The strict validation options are automatically displayed" wording since this automatically displays only if the Proxy version has the feature. So if it is not displayed means that the user needs to update the proxy version. (right @FedeAmdan ?)

Reviewer 2: Sergio is right, OAS is supported since 2.0.0, but the the strict validation options are automatically displayed since 2.1.0.. So IMHO I would rephrase it to "From 2.1.0 the regular and strict validation checkboxes are automatically displayed"

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Configuring your RAML/OAS API Proxy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Configuring Your RAML/OAS API Proxy
```

> . In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* to create your API Instance. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* to create your API instance. 
```

+

> You can create an API instance by importing from Exchange or by importing in API Manager. 

Reviewer 3: Is it still considered an "import" if it comes from withing API Manager?
Also, why do we call this creating if it is actually importing? Is there a way to create without importing?

Author: Yes, you can create it from scratch.

. In *Asset Type*, select *REST/OAS*.

> . To configure your API Proxy for this API instance, select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing type* field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. To configure your API proxy for this API instance, select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing type* field.
```

Reviewer 3: How does one "select" from a "field"? Are these the right terms for this action or this location?

Author: Yes, this is a radio button field.

> . In the *Proxy Deployment Target* field, select your deployment target for the proxy.

Reviewer 3: Hmm...I thought that fields were where you typed entries. Should this be called a "menu" or a "field menu"?

> . Select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* checkbox.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above*.
```

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

+

> When you check the option, the strict validation options are automatically displayed under the *Validations* field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The strict validation options are automatically displayed under the *Validations* field.
```
...BUT do we really have to document the result of the step? Don't we assume that the step worked, and that the user can see the result in the UI?

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

> . In the *Implementation URI* field, secify the URI for the backend service.

Reviewer 3: ditto re. "field"; are we now using that term for a textbox into which a user types? What does "specify" mean: click, select, or type?

Author: Swapped it with "type".

+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-85634.png[]
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
+

> Because Versions later than 2.0.0 implement native OAS support, these versions are recommended for OAS/RAML specs. +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because versions later than 2.0.0 implement native OAS support, these versions are recommended for OAS and RAML specs. +
```

Reviewer 3: GLOBALLY avoid using / to mean "and/or." Choose the best of one or the other.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If you upload an OAS API specification to an API proxy version 1.0 or earlier, your API specification will be translated to RAML.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you upload an OAS API specification to an API proxy version 1.0 or earlier, your API specification is translated to RAML.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Select the *Validate the inbound requests* box and select the *Query params* and *Headers* strict validations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select *Validate the inbound requests* and the *Query params* and *Headers* strict validations.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> The strict validations option compares the headers and query parameters and incoming requests against the proxy specifications. If the request does not match the specifiation, the request returns an error.

Reviewer 3: What is the user to do in case of this error?

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should say something like...:
```suggestion
The strict validations option compares the headers and query parameters and incoming requests to validate them against the proxy specifications.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
image::api-proxy-strict-validations.png[]

> . Select your *Scheme* and *Port* number for your API proxy. +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select a scheme and port number for your API proxy. +
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Optionally, you can set up an *API Instance label* and a *Response Timeout*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can set up an API instance label and a response timeout.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== See Also

* xref:api-proxy-landing-page.adoc[API Proxy]
* xref:proxy-advantages.adoc[Reviewing API Proxy Benefits and Impacts]

> * xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[Building an HTTPS API Proxy]

Reviewer 4: This should also be added in related links: https://docs.mulesoft.com/apikit/4.x/validate-4-task. It has APIKit documentation on the validation options we are exposing in the proxy.

Author: Done! Thanks!
